# Key Takeaways

- Don't let "Gimcrack" feel like an insult to our audience's prior work.
- Consider "dull blade" as an alternative to gimcrack.
- Discuss labs, including time committment
- Reconsider level of detail on architecture discussion
- Emphasize outcomes of course - learn to make informed tradeoffs, learn to think like an architect.
- Refine position on design patterns
    Dave: Much of Gang of Four is about decoupling. In application, leads to more indirection, and ambiguous relationships.
- Present mathmatical ideas "for all & friends" gradually, assume no experience in audience.
- Sean does not "need no introduction" (sorry Sean)

# Raw Notes

Adam: blueprints and templates - are we providing example templates
    no plan to discuss architecture beyond what was said in this lecture
pretty high level, pretty well done

Foster: are there labs/assignments/do work/collaborate/discuss, outside of photoshop?
    yes - we should probably say something about that in the introduction
    what you can expect, how we recommend you address them, etc.
    amount of expected time (5 hrs/week)

Sean: two 1-hr lectures per section, 2 lectures per week, ~8wk course
    exercises between, might want to schedule time connected to the lecture, TAs available to assist

Michael: If the plan is not to cover software architecture, call that out explicitly
    and/or spend less time on it in the presentation
    had the expectation of a statement re: what's the right level of specification depth
    sean: should revisit, the last section is talking about relationships & ties other pieces together.

Laura: the connection between architecture & course components 
    the course components are describing ways to arrive at reasonable architectural decisions
    there's a bunch of stuff on blueprints; which is the end result of making careful decisions at the algo/type/datastructures level
    Sean: missing: architecture is defining structures, which is connected relationships. rels connect through entities
        concrete: copy is connected to equality, these are connected relationships
        how do we identify entities, relationships between them, what structures do they form, which gives you architecture. 
            better to save the point about arch for the end of the course, once we've seen the entities/relationships 
    Laura: that's the grand finale - but the purpose of the intro is partly to motivate people and convince them the course is a good idea
        it's a good idea to be explicit about the payoff
        Note: famous architecture document from deloitte - once you have that knowledge, you'll be able to make this kind of design and understand the consequences of choices.

Laura: How to sell the value of the course in the intro
    Is this C++ specific? Is it?
    Dave: the theory is that we're trying to teach things that are about programming, not about a particular language
        but we are using C++ as the example language; sadly C++ has a lot of sharp edges, and explaining best practices involves touching on those specifics; that's not the intended direction of the course
    Foster: though, practically, a lot of engineers will need to apply this in their careers, in C++. 
    Laura: Numbers on that? Are web people going to this? iOS? What's the breakdown? 
        I've been in C++ for a few years, and it's fine, but ugh, these examples. I'll figure out the C++...
        In the motivation/selling, either show or explain how to make C++ not a major mental overhead/roadblock,
            or, have a translation into typescript/pseudocode
        Dave: The challenge is this is supposed to be the foundation for a book, which shall be 200 pages or less. 
            Unclear how to do that with C++.
        Laura: How many bottles of oop? 99 bottles of oop book? Released in ruby, python in parallel.
        Sean: Alt versions of the book translated into other languages is feasible.
            Algo section: all of the code for it is in Dafny, transcribed into C++
            Dafny is a language that allows you to do formal proofs in a language
            Dafny can be transpiled into TS, etc
            The examples will be relevant to other languages...
        Laura: I want that to be true, but I doubt it. 
        Sean: Types/move semantics makes it weird
        David: Concurrency varies a lot across languages

Sean: Do you prefer statements in math, or, [Laura] No.
    Do I state it as math, do I state it in english as math (for all e such that...), or transform it into English sentence that says what it means.
    Dave: I know you're not asking me, but there's a lot of things you can't translate without precision. E.g. Contracts
    Foster: You need to ease people into that. If you just throw them at math, a lot of eyes will glaze. 
        A lot of CS don't have formal math backgrounds. Trying to throw symbology at them without an in-road will turn them off.
        Dave: Not symbols, but "for all". That's an English statement people can understand, is that too mathy?
    Laura: The math is useful, only way to be precise, but for folks coming from a feature development standpoint, that needs salesmanship.
        In the intro - "You're gonna see some math stuff, and here's why." - It will make your jobs easier, code better, here's why we chose to use math. 
        An extra homework for folks that are not as comfortable with formalisms? I hate "upside down A's" - people can self identify. 
    Dave: misunderstanding - there's no upside down A's. Using english "for all". Is _that_ too mathematical.
    Sean: Example from find algorithm
    Dave: The english phrase is what you do, you want to make a human-digestible rendition of the semantics so it's not a transcription of code. 
    Sean: It's a statement of a postcondition - 
    David: If we do want to render it in a way to make it more readable, it's more helpful to think in precise terms, which can be motivated. 
        We can explain certain terms like "for all"
    Michael: Whatever the end state of precision will be, start from the least scary "I will talk about this" then formalize a little to more precise english
        "for all" will be so used that you're going to want to use the symbols, and that'll be acceptable if introduced.
        Case by case basis
    Laura: David got excited about CPU speed, which drew me into the content of what you were saying.
        Part of the preview can be a paper read about algo techniques you got excited about
        Wouldn't have been able to read without being fluent in this type of set notation
        No need to go deep, but bring out the excitement. Connect math to joy.
    
Adam: You taught a C++ class 4 years ago - was it PS specific? 
    Sean: No, but the exercises were pretty open ended. Go into your codebase and fix it.
        Feedback was, that was too challenging and too open ended.
        That course was a preparation for this course, but I was asked to do a section on "what's new with C++11"
        Which I did, I discovered a lot of knowledge gaps we needed to fill
            concurrency, unit tests, ran out of time before Better Code

Adam: I really want to see a PS/C++ bootcamp, to start understanding the patterns we have.

Sean: Ongoing discussions with Ely about a developer experience group org-wide. 
    A big gap is that we lack C++ training - we have no bootcamps, at all. 
    There's a long list of resources for python, js, git, but not C++.
    We'd like to remedy that by hiring outside professionals. 
    Adam: even with a bootcamp, all devs will want to attend. veterans would want to be there
    Sean: Mark Hamburg has a session this evening "Old Guys Talk About Dinosaurs"
        Mark was the first adobe employee to work on PS. Much of the code is Mark's.
        
Laura: Loved "you're not Nathan McLego" - we're not super geniuses. 
    on that, let's finesse gimcrack. These things are not necessary, worthless, showy. 
    The audience is trying their best for several years, but they're trying.
        Not using design patterns because they're trying to show off, they're trying to hit a quality bar. 
    Dave: worthless and showy is not what we were trying to capture
        it comes from sean's use of the word "raw" as in raw loops
        actually: things that need to be encapsulated if you want to use them in the structure of your system.
            things that get you into trouble as the system scales. 
                raw synch primitives, raw ptrs, raw loops
    David: We shouldn't be putting down the work they've done so far. 
    Foster: That'll matter for examples, projects, labs, people will make you cringe. 
    Laura: My antipattern in PS code is going to be something Foster wrote 
        Main point: there are downsides to the thing that looked like the right idea.
    Dave: the problem with gimcrack is that they're easy tools - a raw ptr is just a * away.
    Laura: List of negative things caused by gimcrack
        I wanted to hear more about the bad things caused by gimcrack code.
        is it just assumed that this overuse is a problem? Give me some war stories.
    Foster: +1 to war stories. shared_ptr, std::thread, good thing we abused, give me problems with abuse. 

Laura: Sean _does_ need an introduction for folks outside the C++ world

Laura: Photoshop architecture description was awesome. I want to record that.
    Parts weren't so clear, lots of boxes and lines, something about caching? 
    I could have used some labels and something to make it more obvious.
    Dave: I was confused by the feedback loop one. 

Laura: Keep a cheet-sheet for Eureka acronym on screen to remind me
    "You can apply EUREKA to all these situations - I want to refer to eureka when explaining what it's used for"

Dave: Suggestions to replace gimcrack? 
    Laura: Does "stuff the breaks as things get bigger" include design patterns?
    Dave: I've found design patterns problematic, but I'm not sure what we want to say about them.
        I think we lack a general take on design patterns.
        Personally, a lot of the gang of four patterns is about decoupling.
            In application, you have more and more indirection, and you lose sight of the relationships. 

    David: the point: if you apply a methodology using prefabricated pieces, you have a worse end product than if you design from first principles. 
        Not that patterns are bad, but you need to discover the need for them from the bottom up. Not apply patterns for the sake of it. 

    David: Gimcrack is a "pitfall" - things that are easy to get wrong, if not done carefully. We might not need a special word for it. You're not a bad person if you've written code that looks like this, it's so easy to do. 

    Laura: Analogy to investing: target funds?

    Foster: Edgar Allen Poe's "the monkey paw" 
        whatever you wish on the monkey paw comes true
        guy going to work for the factory, wishes family has 100k. 
        knock at the door, father has been killed and family gets 100k. 
        Wish him back to life, don't open the door. 

        This thing may be good, solve your problem, but be careful what you wish for. 

        Dave: Missing the point of gimcrack - 
            If you deeply analyzed the downsides of pointers, you'd never expose them. 
            You can use them carefully. [Not sure I captured this well]
    
        Sean: These things usually have weak semantics, but need stronger semantics to be used correctly. 
            Takes a lot of reasoning to determine if you're using the loop correctly.
            Loops are devoid of semantics, it repeats
            Foster: That's a footgun

    Dave: I got it. Dull knives. 
        No exposed dull knives. Want your tool to be precise, well defined results. 
        With a dull knife, it might not cut, it might cut you. 
        Laura/Foster: positive reponse
        Laura: we're craftsmen working with our tools.

    Laura: There's always going to be a drawback to what you choose - 
        There is always a reason someone might decide to use the thing
        This course is about helping people make better decisions about which tradeoffs to make, which pain to accept
        Dave: the point isn't 'don't do the thing', it's 'when doing the thing, encapsulate it'

    Nick: encapsulation & formalization is sharpening the knife.

    Sean: Alternatives to goal?
        Aspiration? Ideal?
        Dave: A goal should be stated positively - to be discussed
    
    Foster: I like the aspirational statements because the audience knows what a raw loop is. 
        They may not know what a positive alternative even is. "no raw loops" gets their attention
        "No ____" begs the question "well, then what? I'm listening"
        
        Sean: No raw pointers maybe should be 'no reference semantics' which spans languages
            do people know what reference semantics is?
        Foster: If you think you've dodged reference semantics by not using pointers, think again - 
            here's java, etc.
