---
---

## Introduction

## What to expect

This book presents and advocates for a principled and rigorous approach to
software development. Instead of focusing on finding *a* solution to a problem,
we'll be searching for the *best* solution. This kind of endeavor necessarily
requires a certain amount of discipline and effort, but your labors will be
rewarded handsomely.

Some of this work borrows from academia and, consequently, we'll be introducing
and using some academic terms. At times we'll even use mathematical notation
when we need the precision it offers.

This being said, our goal is not to produce a purely theoretical exercise coming
from yet another ivory tower. If this work can be only one thing, it must be
preeminently practical. Our goal in creating this material is that you will
henceforth code differently . . . better.

Euclid famously said "there is no royal road to geometry." Likewise,
though we've done our best to make this work as accessible as possible, there is no royal road to better code. To get the most out of this book you're going to have to engage deeply with the
material. The included exercises are necessary to hone your skills.

We'll be using terms in this book that you probably recognize like "semantics",
"contracts", "safety" and "algorithm". While we try to distill the general sense
of these words into something precise, our definitions may not perfectly match
your intuition. We mention this so that you don't mistake our usage of these
words with anything other than the precise definitions we provide.

It is also important to forewarn you that we're going to take some strong
stances against some of today's commonly accepted practices. We want to 
emphasize that these are exclusively criticisms of practices, not practitioners. 
We urge you to keep an open mind as you reflect upon our suggested alternatives. 
You can expect that it
may take some time reviewing code in practice before you reach the same
conclusions we have. Of course, you might never agree with our conclusions. We encourage you to rigorously develop your criticisms of our work, and invite you into the uniquely cooperative pursuit of programming truth. 
